sources in Egypt say construction work
to create spaces to accommodate
Palestinian refugees has begun on the
border with Gaza they say the area is
being prepared in case of an Israeli
offensive in the city of Rafa as part of
its campaign against Hamas who launched
the October 7 Terror attacks such a move
could cause an exodus of Palestinians
across the Egyptian border video
released by Egyptian NGO the Sinai
foundation for human rights shows work
verified by the royal news agency has
being along the gazan border Egypt has
repeatedly said an Israeli offensive in
Rafa would be unacceptable more than a
million Palestinians are currently
Sheltering
there well our correspondent in
Jerusalem Rebecca ritters told me more
about Egypt's plans in the
area well just as you say there Phil
we're getting reports credible reports
that are being verified uh to show that
this is actually underway this
construction is underway we're seeing
satellite imagery that shows this these
eyewitness videos that have been
confirmed and also from speaking to
contractors on the ground you mentioned
there the the SII Foundation of Human
Rights they've been talking to two
contractors on the ground who've
confirmed that this is indeed the case
that this area is being built and on the
satellite uh imagery we can see it's
from the Gaza border uh through quite
quite an area to one of the to another
Highway inside the Sinai Peninsula and
that is being built for as you say the
case where we might see a mass Exodus of
Palestinians now Egypt have been saying
that they don't uh want to accept a a
huge amount of Palestinians into their
territory for fear that they won't be
able to return uh but this is of course
an emergency measure should Palestinians
either break through the Border or or or
should for some reason the Border be
opened and does it look like Israel will
heed International criticisms and call
off its offensive on Rafa
it's really difficult to say we we the
IDF do not give us advanced warning of
their plan plans but we have no reason
to believe that they won't carry out
what they say they have been going to do
and that is to continue their ground
offensive into the Rafa City into the
Rafa region where more than a million
people are now Sheltering from other
parts of the Gaza Strip and were told by
the Israeli military to go down there to
shelter in that area so we they've
they've carried through with all of
their other uh statements that they say
that they were going to go into hunas
they were going to go into the South
they did so so we have no reason to
believe that they won't in fact uh go
ahead with their ground offensive of
Rafa as well uh of course there have
been huge international calls to ensure
that the civilians that are Sheltering
there are able to leave and prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has publicly
stated that he's asked the Israeli
military to come up with a plan to
evacuate these people Sheltering there
though we have noos you know the UN and
many other NOS saying that there simply
isn't room there isn't space where where
will these people go uh many of them
have been displaced multiple times
already and they're tired we we've
spoken to some people on the ground
there who say they simply would just
rather die and rougher than have to move
again they're tired uh and they're
living in squalid conditions with little
belongings left and they've seen many of
their family members die already so
there's a lot of frustration and fear
from the civilians who are still
Sheltering but plans a concrete plan to
evacuate them hasn't emerged yet okay
Rebecca thanks for that Rebecca rers in
Jerusalem journalist Karim El gavari
joins me now from Cairo with more Karim
what do you know about Egypt's plans in
the
area well we first know that there are
satellite pictures that shows an area
about 12 square miles that is prepared
for something like this we have now the
videos from this NGO from sa you were
showing in your report and we have um we
have security sources anonymously
talking that this Camp is in the making
uh that it's going to be surrounded by a
wall and that it will be housing
something between 60 what is able to
house between 60 to 100,000 um people
accepting Palestinians forced out from G
was a red line for the Egyptian
government has the government now
changed its
mind no um it's clearly a constituency
plan I mean they don't want to be part
of any official plan of any displacement
uh of Palestinians from the Gaza Strip
of any forceful conviction eviction of
Palestinians from the Gaza Strip so this
is a camp that is just preparing for
what might come because of course on the
Egyptian side there is Big fear that
there will be some kind of mass Exodus
when um
this Israeli ground offensive in Rafa
really start because I mean what the
people will do in front of them they
have the Israeli Army behind them they
have the Egyptian uh uh wall of the
border so it's a big possibility that
they might to try to get out onto the
Egyptian side and they're just basically
preparing for this they're trying to put
it into so some kind of controlled area
that was was the and because the
Egyptian Army also don't forget they
will be not able to go against these
refugees or the people who come over the
Palestinians by force it's politically
impossible even that they shoot at the
Lis so they try to set up something
where they can control the situation and
is Egypt certain that if it came to this
that these refugees in the Sinai in the
places that are being uh in the area
where all this construction work is
happening that these refugees would be
there only temporarily
well that is the big fear I mean the big
fear is of Egypt that there will be they
they really don't want to be part of a
displacement scenario and uh uh of
course first I mean big parts of the
Gaza strips are completely destroyed so
where would the people go back to when
the war is over and the second thing is
there's of course parts of the benam
Beno government who is talking openly
about the displacement of Palestinians
from the Gaza Strip forever so that is
something of course Egypt has in mind
that Egypt is very fearful of are there
concerns Karim that this could
eventually affect bilateral relations
between Israel and
Egypt h if it comes to that absolutely I
mean the Egyptians already said if their
security concerns are uh not addressed
through this Israeli offensive they
might even recall the
Ambassador and there was even talk uh
few days ago that the Camp David peace
agreement might be uh completely
suspended but that's something the
Egyptian government denied by now we'll
leave it there for the time being thanks
for speaking to us journalist Karim Al
gavari reporting from the Egyptian
Capital Kyo thanks so
much you're
welcome